                                      TALC
                                      ====

Release 3.0
Copyright
    Greg Morrisett, Neal Glew, Dave Walker, Steve Zdancewic, Stephanie Weirich,
    Frederick Smith, Dan Grossman, Trevor Jim, Luke Hornoff, and 
    Michael Hicks, September 2000 all rights reserved.

Enclosed in this whole tarball are a number of tools:

(1) the TALC type-checker, link-checker, assembler, and disassembler:
	- These are tools for producing and type-checking TALx86, typed
	  assembly or binaries for the Intel x86 line of processors.  The 
          tools should work under both Linux and Win32.  In particular, 
          the TAL assembler and disassembler can handle both COFF and ELF
	  object file formats.  Sadly, there is little documentation.
	  See http://www.cs.cornell.edu/talc/papers for papers that
	  describe some of theoretical and practical aspects of TALx86.

(2) Popcorn:
	- Popcorn is a compiler for a type-safe C-like language
	  augmented with ML-style polymorphism, exceptions, etc.
	  The compiler produces TALx86 code and is thus usable
	  in settings where binaries need to be verified as type-
	  safe.
	- Popcorn can also be used for run-time code generation
	  using the TAL/T extensions.
	- There are two versions of the compiler:  one written in
	  Ocaml and one written in Popcorn itself.  The former
	  is simpler and produces better diagnostics, but the
	  latter produces better code.
	- In addition, there are numerous libraries and examples
	  scattered throughout the directories.

(3) Cyclone:
	- Cyclone will be the successor to Popcorn.  It provides
	  much better support for type-checking ANSI-C code, better
	  linguistic support for pattern matching, subtyping, etc.
	- Currently, we only compile Cyclone to C.  In the future,
	  we will be building a direct TALx86 backend.

(4) There are numerous other directories that hold old code that
    no longer works.  For instance, the scheme/ directory is an old
    compiler that targeted an earlier version of TALx86.  If I don't
    mention a directory below, then it contains old code that will
    no longer work.

See the file INSTALL for instructions on building and running
the various tools.

TALC Sources
------------
INSTALL  : instructions for installing and configuring the tools
Makefile : builds the talc tools and non-optimizing Popcorn compiler
README   : this file
apps/ 
  popcorn/: contains applications written in Popcorn
    Makefile : builds the optimizing Popcorn compiler and other tools
    build/   : where the optimizing compiler is deposited
    popcorn/ : sources for the optimizing compiler
    talx86/  : simple TAL tools for Popcorn to generate TAL code
    tools/   : bison and ocamllex ported to generate Popcorn code
    toplevel/: generic compiler front-end tools written in Popcorn
    util/    : used to contain some utilities
  sptc/   : a minimal graphics interface to Popcorn for WinNT
build/   : where the talc and non-optimizing popcorn compiler are placed
cogen/   : TAL support for doing dynamic code generation
computil/: compiler utilities
cyclone/ : the cyclone compiler 
  Makefile  : builds the Cyclone compiler -- needs everything else built first
  README.txt: minimal description of Cyclone and how to build
  bin/      : where the cyclone compiler binary is placed
  doc/      : minimal documentation on Cyclone
  lib/      : examples of Cyclone source -- various libraries
  src/      : Popcorn source code for the Cyclone compiler
doc/     : documentation on Popcorn
popcorn/ : Ocaml source code for the non-optimizing Popcorn compiler
runtime/ : Runtime code for the Popcorn compiler and TAL assembler, including
	   the Boehm-Demers-Weiser conservative collector for both Linux and
	   Win32.  
talx86/  : Ocaml source code for the talc tool which does type- and link-
	   checking for TALx86 code (either .tal assembly code or .obj/.o
	   files in conjunction with .to files).  
tests/   : various test files for popcorn
  cyclone/:  tests the run-time code generation facilities of Popcorn
	     (not to be confused with $root/cyclone)
  loader/ :  tests the dynamic loading facilities of Popcorn
  popcorn/:  tests various features of Popcorn
  talx86/ :  tests various features of TALx86.
toplevel/: Generic compiler front end tools written in Ocaml.
util/    : Some Ocaml libraries used throughout.

